>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's go through
exercise five History & Diffs.
First thing we're going to do is
check out the exercise five branch.
>> Nina Zakharenko: The -f flag for
check out will force the checkout,
it'll overwrite any changes.
I recommend not using this
in your day-to-day work,
you'll end up having a bad time.
But I'm just using it to check
out this example exercise branch,
because I had some uncommitted work.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now
that I am on exercise five,
>> Nina Zakharenko: We're gonna practice
a good commit.
I don't think I have to walk
you guys through that, so
I'm just going to comment at the file.
Here, say,
>> Nina Zakharenko: We're going to change
our hello.txt.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
we're gonna make it say,
>> Nina Zakharenko: (greeting) (noun).
>> Nina Zakharenko: Great,
now my hello.txt looks like that.
And we're gonna rename it.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And then,
we're going to commit that change.
For brevity, I'm not going to show you
what a good commit message looks like but
hopefully, you all got to practice
this during your exercise.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Cool., so
now we have a good commit.
Let's check out our commit with log.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So this should show us
what commits were made since yesterday.
Just this one.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now,
most importantly, let's try to track
the hello.template file
as its changed names, and
we're going to do that with name
status and the --follow flag.
--follow lets you follow a file as
its changed names moved around, etc.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now, we'll see here
that this is where it was renamed, and
some other commits where
that foul was modified.
In the initial commit, we'll see A.
A means, that's when it was added.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now,
let's use git grep, git log grep.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
let's search for the term,
i18n, and author is going to be me.
And the since is two weeks ago, oops.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Great,
that went and found that commit.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Without the log grep
for example, it would have pulled up all
the commits, since they were all made by
me in the course of the past two weeks.
Let's use diff filter to find
where the file was renamed.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And there we go.
>> Nina Zakharenko: We can also
use diff filter to specify and
find out when were the files modified,
that's using M.
>> Nina Zakharenko: These are all
the commits where that file was modified.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now that we found our
commit,
>> Nina Zakharenko: I
want to check this commit out,
using git show.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So I copy and
paste that hash, and here it is.
It shows all the changes.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now, how do we find
out, how do we sort of diff branches,
how do we find out which branches were
merged into master and which ones weren't?
We can do that with git branch --merged,
which ones were merged into master.
Those two,
which ones were not merged into master?
We can use no merged.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Great,
that's the end of exercise five.